Add BDK Blog Post (#35)
bitcoinbrink/website: _posts/2021-04-08-alekos-bdk.md

---
title: "Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit"
permalink: /blog/2021/04/08/bitcoin-development-kit/
layout: post
author: alekos
name: "Alekos"
alt: Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit
category: "News"
description: Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit.
---

<img src="/assets/images/2021-04-08-bitcoin-development-kit.svg" />

While a very high level understanding of Bitcoin can be enough to grasp how
value is moved across the network, taking this knowledge and using it to build a
real, user-ready product can prove to be very hard, due to the high security

> standards that need to be met, and also in part because of all the little quirks

Author: Perhaps also note technical details:

due to the technical details and high security standards that need to be met

the Bitcoin protocol has.

Over the years many different libraries have been released to help. Application

> developers can work more effectively on their products. Those libraries come in a

Author: Suggestion: Application developers can work more effectively on their products and leave the technical and security concerns to the underlying library.

wide variety of programming languages, but they have always historically
suffered from either a lack of generalization, meaning that they would only
support a very limited set of operations, or they would trade some of the
convenience for a more powerful API, making them especially tricky to use in
practice without a deep understanding of the protocol.

This ultimately has reduced the “diversity” of Bitcoin

> products and wallets available to the public today: the vast majority of them

Author: Maybe "end products" for clarity

only support single-signature schemes, or at most simple multi-signatures. More
complex scripts that involve, for instance, timelocks are very rarely seen in
the wild.

> The advent of output descriptors promises to remove once and for all the

Author: Suggest linking to https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/output-script-descriptors/ for context here

very concise syntax even the most complex Bitcoin spending conditions. With the
right tools, a developer can build a product that relies on arbitrary spending
policies without having to ever touch raw Bitcoin scripts or transactions.

Even better, software built with descriptors in mind can be very easy to adapt
to new protocol changes, like the upcoming Taproot soft-fork, and it allows
prototyping and shipping new features much more quickly because most of the
complexity is handled internally by the library. Developers that adopt this
technology can ultimately spend more time working on their product and tailoring
it to their users’ needs, rather than having to learn all the low level details
of the Bitcoin protocol and having to keep up with them.

The [Bitcoin Dev Kit][bdk website] (or BDK for short) project is working on building a set of
open source libraries that can be used to develop descriptor-based Bitcoin
products. Its core components are written in Rust, a language that prioritizes
memory-safety while at the same time being “low-level” enough that it can be
easily compiled and run on embedded hardware. BDK is also very well integrated

> with the larger rust-bitcoin ecosystem and all the major libraries can easily

Author: Perhaps link to rust-bitcoin repo here?

Reviewer: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin

also s/rust-bitcoin/Rust Bitcoin/

interoperate with each other.

BDK tries to be very modular and provides a few ready-to-use default modules out
of the box: one can use the provided branch-and-bound coin selection, or swap it

> with a custom algorithm without having to fork and modify the library. The same

Author: Suggest "custom coin selection algorithm"

applies to the internal database and the blockchain backend: the library
provides the implementation for different databases and backend clients based on
Electrum and Neutrino. Those are bundled with the library, but they can be
replaced (or removed entirely to make air-gapped ephemeral wallets) to better
suit the developers’ needs.

This allows BDK to be potentially used in many different kinds of products that
need to interact with the Bitcoin network: it can be the watch-only wallet of a
vending machine running on a low-power board, the high security corporate
Bitcoin vault that runs on multiple air-gapped geographically-distributed
computers, or everything else in between.

> I started this project more than a year ago, and I have been leading its

Reviewer 2: I find the shift from third-person description to first-person narrative in the middle of the document to be a bit disconcerting.  I suggest you look for a way to insert yourself earlier in the document, preferably by the second paragraph.

---

> title: "Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Dev Kit"
```

> permalink: /blog/2021/04/08/bitcoin-development-kit/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: /blog/2021/04/08/bitcoin-dev-kit/
```

layout: post
author: alekos
name: "Alekos"
alt: Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit
category: "News"

> description: Alekos Filini on Bitcoin Development Kit.

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
description: Alekos Filini explains the design philosophy behind the Bitcoin Dev Kit.
```

---

<img src="/assets/images/2021-04-08-bitcoin-development-kit.svg" />

> _Alekos’ grant is generously supported by [Kraken][kraken website]._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Alekos’s grant is generously supported by [Kraken][kraken website]._
```

While a very high level understanding of Bitcoin can be enough to grasp how
value is moved across the network, taking this knowledge and using it to build a
real, user-ready product can prove to be very hard, due to the high security
standards that need to be met, and also in part because of all the little quirks
the Bitcoin protocol has.

> Over the years many different libraries have been released to help. Application
> developers can work more effectively on their products. Those libraries come in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the years many different libraries have been released to help, allowing application
developers to work more effectively on their products. Those libraries come in a
```

wide variety of programming languages, but they have always historically
suffered from either a lack of generalization, meaning that they would only
support a very limited set of operations, or they would trade some of the
convenience for a more powerful API, making them especially tricky to use in
practice without a deep understanding of the protocol.

This ultimately has reduced the “diversity” of Bitcoin
products and wallets available to the public today: the vast majority of them
only support single-signature schemes, or at most simple multi-signatures. More
complex scripts that involve, for instance, timelocks are very rarely seen in
the wild.

The advent of output descriptors promises to remove once and for all the
trade-off between usability and power: descriptors can be used to express with a
very concise syntax even the most complex Bitcoin spending conditions. With the
right tools, a developer can build a product that relies on arbitrary spending
policies without having to ever touch raw Bitcoin scripts or transactions.

> Even better, software built with descriptors in mind can be very easy to adapt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even better, software built using descriptors can be very easy to adapt
```

> to new protocol changes, like the upcoming Taproot soft-fork, and it allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to new protocol changes, like the upcoming Taproot soft fork, and it allows
```

> to new protocol changes, like the upcoming Taproot soft-fork, and it allows
> prototyping and shipping new features much more quickly because most of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to new protocol changes, like the upcoming Taproot soft-fork. Descriptors also allow
prototyping and shipping new features much more quickly because most of the
```

complexity is handled internally by the library. Developers that adopt this
technology can ultimately spend more time working on their product and tailoring
it to their users’ needs, rather than having to learn all the low level details
of the Bitcoin protocol and having to keep up with them.

The [Bitcoin Dev Kit][bdk website] (or BDK for short) project is working on building a set of
open source libraries that can be used to develop descriptor-based Bitcoin
products. Its core components are written in Rust, a language that prioritizes

> memory-safety while at the same time being “low-level” enough that it can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory-safety while at the same time being low-level enough that it can be
```

easily compiled and run on embedded hardware. BDK is also very well integrated
with the larger rust-bitcoin ecosystem and all the major libraries can easily
interoperate with each other.

> BDK tries to be very modular and provides a few ready-to-use default modules out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BDK aims to be very modular and provides a few ready-to-use default modules out
```

with a custom algorithm without having to fork and modify the library. The same
applies to the internal database and the blockchain backend: the library
provides the implementation for different databases and backend clients based on
Electrum and Neutrino. Those are bundled with the library, but they can be
replaced (or removed entirely to make air-gapped ephemeral wallets) to better
suit the developers’ needs.

This allows BDK to be potentially used in many different kinds of products that
need to interact with the Bitcoin network: it can be the watch-only wallet of a
vending machine running on a low-power board, the high security corporate
Bitcoin vault that runs on multiple air-gapped geographically-distributed
computers, or everything else in between.

I started this project more than a year ago, and I have been leading its
development ever since, thanks to initial funding from Bitfinex. There are
currently three other people working full-time on the project with most of their
funding coming from Square Crypto, and a larger and growing community of people
contributing with code, documentation, feature requests, and feedback.

> We are focusing a lot of efforts on building a healthy community of people that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are focusing our efforts on building a healthy community of people that
```

contribute to and use BDK by providing examples, documentation, and everything
else they might need to get started. We strongly believe this is one of the key
points that can make the library survive the test of time.

The main Rust library is currently undergoing its beta phase, but there’s still
a lot of work left to do: on top of maintaining and improving the library
itself, we are working on releasing bindings for a few other programming
languages like C, Python, Java/Kotlin and Swift to allow the library to be used
more conveniently in mobile and desktop environments.

We are also starting a collaboration with the developers behind the [Lightning

> Dev Kit][ldk website] (LDK) to ensure that the two libraries can “work together” seamlessly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dev Kit][ldk website] (LDK) to ensure that the two libraries can work together seamlessly,
```
